Welcome back to the conclusion of our name game find her game that we've been developing over the last
few lessons.
So we had left it off that when we hit start it asks us to find a name and then we can go ahead and
we can try to find that name and all of the scrambled names.
So let's let's update what we're doing down here.
And we want to make sure that we want to output a message if it's correct or not.
So when the user makes a selection and we're going to put it to message to say let's do a message to
and to correct and then message to wrong.
And save that.
Go back out and click Start swift to find Larry.
So it clicked and it's correct Ron.
So that's working.
So the next objective is to actually remove the item from the array and also remove the item visually
from the user's screen.
So those are two things that we need to do.
And then we also need to relaunch that find person function because this basically means that they've
got it correct.
So they have to find a new person.
So there's two things.
Two more things that we need to do in here.
So we need to remove element.
So the current element and we have to remove from our
So pause the video and go back to where we were looking at arrays and idée and how we can select.
So we've got the value of the item in the array but we don't have the index.
So look up how we can remove an item from the array and then also we'll go over how we can remove the
element from the screen as well.
So we had an opportunity to take a look at.
When we looked at arrays and we know with the raise we need to get the index value in order to do a
removal.
Otherwise we just don't know what item it is that we need to remove so we can use splice but we need
to know the index value.
So let's find out the index value of that particular key within the array.
So we can do variable and we'll just give it a variable of an my array and we can do index of.
And this is where we can pass s or key and actually it doesn't really matter.
So basically what's going to happen here is this returns back our index number.
So now we can get rid of this and we can do my array and we can use the splice method.
And basically this allows us to provide an index number and remove a number of items from the array.
So we only want to remove that one item that matches that index number.
So basically it's going to pull that one out of the array.
And the other part of it was that we needed to do is we needed to remove one of these element.
So we know we have the current element in this and we know that if we want to remove something we have
to go up to the parent node because then if we move up then we can look to do remove child from that
parent and we already have information on that child because that information is t..
So basically we're passing that this object we know which element is that we want to remove.
So basically we're passing that up and then we're removing it from the array as well.
So now let's try that out and start so we know that we've got Mike and it's wrong.
So we're looking for Larry.
So it's there.
So it's correct.
We got to remove him out.
Next one John.
So everything looks like it's working properly.
And there's one other thing that we do need to still take care of
so you notice that once I'm coming to the end of the game there's actually no way to finish the game.
So this is where we need to add in a way to finish the game and we can do this when we're looking for
the new elements when it's been clicked.
So this is the part where we know that if we've removed it out of the array then that's it.
The game is over and we're not looking for anything else or any new items within that array because
array is at zero.
So let's do a quick check to see if my array length is less than or equal to zero.
And if it is then we know our game is over.
So let's pass a message into Message 1 and we're going to just say game over a message one
game over.
So nice and big uppercase like that.
So now we know the game is over and the user really has no choice but to start again.
So we're not going to ask him any more notches and there's nothing else really to do other than to start
the game again.
So let's let's save that and let's try the functionality.
So now we're looking for the names so I can just click a bunch of them here as well.
So we're looking for Laurence looking for a jawin
and going all the way down.
And now we see Game over.
So now we can get started again and we can play the game once again.
So the game is fairly flexible because if you add in more values into the array it will work.
Make sure that you don't have any duplicates within that array because that will throw the game off.
And other than that it's fairly dynamic and it will adjust to the number of people that you have in
the array and you can also update these functions with the shuffle functions that we looked at earlier
as well.
And then this one here is just simply to add a little bit more interest because we can scramble the
letters.
So this is another function that we're going to be looking at later on in the course what we can do
with strings and string methods.
So try it out for yourself.
Build out and build out
a bunch of divs dynamically from the array.
So that's the thing to practice here.
Take an array with a number of values.
Build out your gameboard dynamically with mouseover mouseover and on click pass those values over and
make something happen within the functions.
So try that for yourself and you could also update the styling and create your own spin on what happens
when the user guesses correctly.